[Music]
this
is one of the most astonishing sights
that i've ever seen
we are looking down on the world's
largest
mammal vibration
just sensational
there are thousands of wildebeests
beneath me in a long line
stretching across the savannah a group
of perhaps
one and a half million of these animals
that are constantly
on the move in this serengeti ecosystem
and they make a journey which lasts a
full year
and covers a thousand miles
be able to take this crazy journey
because of this because they're after
these really nutritious
grasses essentially they're storm
chasers
they're chasing the reins which feed
these grasses
if you look at the woodley's they have
these really significant incisor rose
and loose lips
that's to help them rapidly eat that
grass
[Music]
the movement has an extraordinary impact
on this ecosystem
firstly directly that grazing pressure
is preventing the regeneration of trees
it's keeping this as
open savannah also the impact that we
have on the predators this is of course
an enormous amount of meat on the move
many animals will take advantage of that
lions will
simply stay in their territories and
eagerly await
the arrival of the wildebeest ditto the
crocodiles that are
stopped in those rivers which they have
to cross on route
then lastly there are predators that
will go out for the day
follow the wildebeest but then go back
to their dens in the evening
or in the morning depending whether
they're dying or nocturnal things like
wild dogs and those spotted hyenas
[Music]
[Applause]
you